- After log aggregation,
one of the key uses, is analytical exercises
on the stream data platform.
This exercise is performed after the internal processing
of the messages, and in the aggregations.
In the real world of analytics tools and engines,
you may be curious why the stream data platform
is an optimal place to do system analytics.
The reason is speed, efficiency
and ultimately near real-time activity.
When it comes to near real-time activity,
short of in-process activity,
the stream data platform offers
the first place analytics can occur.
And often is a bigger view of the data.
In an in-process solution you would be restricted
to the data available to the individual microservice.
But in a stream data analytics solution
you would have multiple microservices
and systems to capture and analyze the data from.
This near real-time activity means
your reaction times are quicker as well.
If you are building analytics that will trigger
system events, for instance, this becomes critical.
We're going to talk about eventing later because
its one of the most exciting uses
of the platform, in my opinion.
Because the data is analyzed In-stream,
using tools like Apache Spark that are designed to
handle the size and scope of data possible.
Your data is not only analyzed sooner,
but also quicker. Consider if you pushed all of that data
first to a relational data warehouse,
and then had to create queries on that data.
The data either has to be optimized for use cases, which
restrict others, or stored in a way that makes indicesing
efficient. As such, real-time analytics engines are much
quicker at handling the disjointed data.
All of this leads to quicker responses.
Dashboards can be built quickly and efficiently,
That show real time introspection of the system.
You can get answers to questions as quick as you can write
and execute the analytics job, making its agility king.
If you have to write to a database
de-normalize it or optimize a query,
your time to delivery rapidly increases with each pivot.
So now, to the how?
the first thing you really need, is a question to answer.
But once you have it, you write a job to look for answers.
Since you have the data,
you know where to look. Once the job is written,
you execute it, as a consumer of the stream data.
You then evaluate the results.
Control groups can really help here
to make sure that you are getting the most valid answers.
Visualizations again, help the human
comprehend The results.
The exercise usually takes several iterations to determine
if the analytics is correct.
Finally, you are ready to ship it.
If the analytics was worth it,
there's value in collecting these results
over a period of time.
The analyzed and massage data is now ready to ship
in a new format to a data lake for future use.
The original source data is left intact, but in this model,
we now represent the data in a new form in our lake.
So the question about value is a valid one.
There's a lot of work involved in building an analytic
system on top of a stream data platform.
One thing to note is that maturity matters to really achieve
optimal results. You need to commit to it,
and allow it to mature.
At the same time, you'd be flexible
and pivot as needed within the model.
The insights, however hard This
are powerful tools.
As you will see, when we discuss eventing.
You can really do yourself a lot of good
by building an analytics platform,
especially in a microservices architecture,
where there are a lot of moving parts.
As I mentioned, with maturity, you need dedication.
Your organization must dedicate real efforts
to making this work.
If you do it halfway,
your chances of succeeding are reduced dramatically.
This dedication must be from top down, as well as bottom up.
The team needs to buy into the value
of such a platform and, turn it into a reality.
Now you won't find significant value immediately,
especially considering the investment.
Once you allow it to mature and grow, you will see value,
but the return on investment takes time.